>> Sarah Drasner: All right,
demo time, so let's go into
Photoshop here and let's go like that.
I'm gonna go to create new and then we're
gonna create a new composition here.
I already put a grid onto this and that's
one of the preferences I have set up.
If you need to do that, you go view, and
you go show, and
you go grid or if you get good
at those quick keys,
command and single quote.
You can also snap to grid and
right now we're going to snap to grid,
you can see that we also have rulers here.
If I got CTRL R,
it removes the rulers, if I bring,
let's say Ctrl R brings them back.
Also, if I have the rulers on the board,
I can bring guides, so
I can use these guides to,
how we're lining things up.
So if you don't wanna use a grid,
you don't have to, you could also say.
View, Show, Grid, and then you can
just use these kinds of anchoring
guides instead, so
let's do View, Show, Grid again.
So let's make a couple of compositions,
just with some circles and
squares and things like that.
So I'm actually gonna do a darker grey,
so that you can see.
So maybe we'll just start with
a giant square or rectangle.
Actually, I'm gonna go all the way across,
here you can see how it's snapping,
and then I hit G and
Draw something, right?
So here we've got a boring rectangle.
All right, so
then if I wanna make a new square,
I would have to get out of that,
that move tool.
And so I hit V and then M, so
now I'm back into the marquee tool, but
I have to toggle between tools.
You can see this toolbar here,
has all the tools,
so here's the marquee,
here's the elliptical marquee.
Here I'm gonna hit Shift and M,
and that will give me a circle, Shift and
M will give me a square, right?
This Move tool is the thing that
will allow me to move things,
convert to a normal layer,
let's do this again, go back.
>> Sarah Drasner: And make a new
layer here and [INAUDIBLE] layer.
>> Sarah Drasner: Okay, cool, so now maybe
I wanna cut this up a little bit cuz I
don't want just one image
spanning the entire thing,
we talked about how that
might be a little bit boring.
So maybe I want some text here,
except maybe going up and
down or something instead of just normal.
So I can actually turn
text on its head and
then I'm gonna make the column here,
no maybe here.
All right, so I'm deciding right
now that this is probably a photo,
and this is gonna be a column of text.
Maybe I have another little
piece of text down here that
fits along with this column, and
I probably need a nav too, right?
So first I'm gonna just go
across like that as well and
then we've got a really boring grid.
But so maybe we wanna break up this
nav a little bit and I wanna do,
probably I don't span all
the way with this content.
I don't have that many allies in my nav,
but we talked about those circles.
So maybe we do Shift and M to make
a circle, and go a little bit bigger.
We talked about how we make it a little
bit bigger, so then I can make the circle,
and then maybe I wanna move it into place.
So that's a composition, I'm actually
gonna group all of this stuff,
that's how I group, so I selected all
of these and I put them in a group.
So now I can toggle these compositions,
okay,
that's a composition,
that's a composition.
So maybe I try to make something like this
in code just to try things out right.
Lets try one more.
I'm gonna remove these rulers,
maybe this time,
let's just do something
that's skinny across it.
>> Sarah Drasner: Let's start
with something like that,
>> Sarah Drasner: Okay,
so maybe we want to have
columns of texts under.
Maybe this is a few different images or
something like that.
So let's break up the images,
I think this time let's try to break
up the images over here on this side.
And then maybe we have
a column of text over here.
>> Sarah Drasner: And actually,
let's put this on its own layer so
that it can duplicate, so
maybe we want another column of text.
>> Sarah Drasner: Over here, and
then maybe we want a nav kind of thing but
we want it to line up with this guy,
with the anchoring,
so maybe we do,
>> Sarah Drasner: Something
like that, well, a new layer, and
then we probably want a circle somewhere.
So let's do Shift + M, and I'm gonna put
a little logo in the corner here, shift,
>> Sarah Drasner: Okay, cool, but
we talked about diagonals, maybe we wanna
introduce a diagonal somewhere in this.
So maybe we don't want it to be
part of the composition, but
something that's a piece of
the background or something like that.
So I'm gonna grab this
Polygonal Lasso Tool and break that grid.
>> Sarah Drasner: And we're gonna put
this on it's own layer, add it in.
And then I'm gonna reduce the opacity
of this layer so that it's just
a piece of the composition
instead of a thing.
Maybe I wanna duplicate or mirror that
somewhere else in this composition so
that it's not the only diagonal.
I could also maybe take
a bite out of this one,
actually that's wrong.
By the way, you'll get stuck
in these diagonal lasso tools,
it will keep going until
it finds its first part.
And you'll know it found its first
part because a little circle will come
on the side, so if you go down,
around here and
then you see the little
circle up here in the corner?
It's like a little circle.
Now I can go find
the layer that this is on,
I think it's this one, yeah,
and go into there and delete.
I don't know, maybe it's, again, not the
best compositions in the world but still
a bit more interesting and intriguing
than what you usually start with.
So you can start to see how
thinking just about the layout and
just about the composition without
thinking about everything else.
Without thinking about the typography or
the color or
anything else,
simplifies that process a little bit,
you can just think about the shapes and
take them and remove them.
And maybe I'm presenting this to somebody
and I can just go, well here's one idea,
here's another idea, here's another idea,
and we can talk through these concepts.
And which one's the strongest or
what needs to be built off of it,
maybe we work off of these
things a little bit later.
None of these are final or anything, but
you can see how its a conversation-opener
to like, do we wanna have this circular
layout, or how would that work?